welcome to bits of blender and today I'm
going to talk about three minor
differences between blender 2.45 and
2.46 and also with me today is someone
who's been using blender since he was
eight and a half years old Richard how
old you know name see that but a pretty
darn good blender head for someone who
is 9 the first thing i want to show is
when you're installing blender 2.46 so
i'm going to go ahead and launch the
Installer move this over here next i
agree to something and I'm just
accepting the defaults for now like like
usual and this is where I'll get you if
you're on Windows right here this is the
default but if you do that I find that I
don't see my scripts visible so select
this second one use the installation
directory next and then you'll be fine
you'll see all your scripts alright I'm
going to pause while this finishes okay
let me launch splendor and the next
thing I'm going to show you is how when
you put objects in the default has
changed look the way it's been
previously is when you put an object in
its aligned to that view and let me show
you the difference here I believe that
object will add a plane and everything
looks normal right so let me delete that
object look at it from the front view
and then add a plane and notice that it
didn't come in the way you might have
expected from earlier versions of
blender where you're looking at it
straight on and that's aligned to view
you'll see when it comes in
that the rotation is at the zero zero
point in previous versions it would have
came in a line two view so here when it
came in it would have been at like 90
degrees and if you didn't know that you
might not realize that you already have
a rotation on your objects so here it
kind of makes more sense but if you that
it comes in at 0-0 I like that better
but if you prefer the previous way let's
go ahead and delete that and I'll show
you where you can now set that
preference so move your cursor up up to
this line here to get your user
preferences click on edit methods and
click aligned to view so that was the
previous default for versions of blender
so now look I'm still in the front view
I hit the spacebar add a plane and
you'll see that the plane was added with
a rotation on it so to get rid of this
you would have to you know do you know
all to our clear rotation and you'd be
back to its zero zero point of course
you could have typed in there as well
now the last thing I want to show you is
let's go to the desktop
I forgot what I'm looking for trap into
that blend this is the blend file for my
blender basics to video that if you look
at this and render it let's see let's go
ahead and do a quick render I'm going to
render it at like fifty percent so it
renders quickly I probably could have
turned over sampling off
you'll see something funky going on here
with the texture map so let's close that
and what's changed is ok so right click
on the object going to materials go to
texture I'm going to select the logo
because that's the one that's actually
having the problem and look at this pre
multiply that wasn't there before but it
is there now and the default before four
objects is that pre multiply is on so
now watch when I give it a quick render
there it looks fine again so the three
changes that we have in this video just
three minor changes the Preferences is
when you're installing if you're on
Windows especially I didn't notice that
on Mac is select the middle option the
installation directory so that you can
see all your scripts otherwise if you
didn't select the middle option you
might not when you go to import you
might not see your scripts here you just
see those three things the second thing
is you're aligned to view the defaults
change so that now when you add a new
object it is not allowing to view its in
its default 000 rotation if you want to
back the way it was previously just
click that on and the third thing is the
default for textures with image Maps
like this logo turning pre-multiply on
thanks a lot and we'll see you next time